# Prediction of Clinical Risk Factors of Diabetes Using Multiple Machine Learning Techniques Resolving Class Imbalance
 
## Accepted in ICCIT 2020 and available online

Link: 	https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9392694

### Abstract
Being the most common and rapidly growing disease, Diabetes affecting a huge number of people from all span of ages each year that reduces the lifespan. Having a high affecting rate, it increases the significance of initial diagnosis. Diabetes brings other complicated complications like cardiovascular disease, kidney failure, stroke, damaging the vital organs etc. Early diagnosis of diabetes reduces the likelihood of transiting it into a chronic and severe state. The identification and analysis of risk factors of different spinal attributes help to identify the prevalence of diabetes in medical diagnosis. The prevalence measure and identification of diabetes in the early stages reduce the chances of future complications.  In this research, the collective NHANES dataset of 1999-2000 to 2015-2016 was used and the purposes of this research were to analyze and ascertain the potential risk factors correlated with diabetes by using Logistic Regression, ANOVA and also to identify the abnormalities by using multiple supervised machine learning algorithms. Class imbalance, outlier problems were handled and experimental results show that age, blood-related diabetes, cholesterol and  BMI  are the most significant risk factors that associated with diabetes. Along with this, the highest accuracy score .90 was achieved with the random forest classification method.
